Response to 2nd referee's 2nd report on the revised version SIADS_v2:

We have adopted most of the changes/corrections suggested by the referee.
A detailed response follows along with the referee's comments.


'On state space geometry of the Kuramoto-Sivashinsky flow in
a periodic domain'

Predrag Cvitanovic', Ruslan L. Davidchak and Evangelos Siminos
  resubmitted to SIAM J. Appl. Dyn. Syst.

The manuscript under review is a careful and detailed attempt
to understand the dynamics and geometry of state space of a
model chaotic partial differential equation, the
Kuramoto-Sivashinsky (KS) equation. Unlike in most previous
related studies which were restricted to odd solutions, the
authors consider general periodic solutions and tackle the
additional challenges introduced by continuous symmetry,
especially the considerable increase in the diversity of
allowed solutions.

The goal is to understand the dynamics of a particular (fixed
L) KS system via extensive computation of its equilibria,
relative equilibria, periodic and relative periodic orbits,
and the heteroclinic connections between these; these
computed solutions, though unstable, form (in the authors'
words) a 'cage' for the full state space geometry. The domain
size chosen, L = 22, which lies in the interval of smallest
L-values for which the PDE displays chaotic behavior, is such
that the chaos is still fairly low-dimensional, and does not
yet display all the features of full spatiotemporal
(extensive) chaos observed in larger domains (there is only
one positive Lyapunov exponent); but as the study makes
clear, the phase space is already quite complicated, with in
particular a large number of relative periodic and
pre-periodic orbits even of relatively low period (T < 200).
The authors' hope and goal is to extend these geometric ideas
to larger domains, and ultimately to fully spatiotemporally
chaotic or turbulent regimes; this study makes progress in
this direction but also gives an indication of the high
complexity that might be expected. . .

I am pleased that the authors found my comments on the first
version of this manuscript helpful; and I thank them for
their very careful and detailed, point-by-point responses and
explanations. I enjoyed reading the replies, and generally
agree with their comments; and feel that the changes made
have improved and clarified the manuscript, especially in the
discussions of symmetries, visualization, and the extended
Appendix C. I prefer the modified title (maybe: 'On the state
space. . . '), while the discussion of the use of the terms
'chaos', 'spatiotemporal chaos' and 'turbulence' in the
Introduction clarifies the authors' perspective on this
tricky issue. (I also appreciated the blue-colored text,
which made the modifications to the text much easier to
identify!)

As the authors make clear in their response, the story is by
no means yet complete, even for the L = 22 KS equation; they
indicate that further details including more material on the
relative periodic orbits and symmetry reduction will appear
in a forthcoming paper, which I look forward to seeing.

However, the present work is, I feel, already a significant
contribution to the understanding of the state space geometry
of a high-dimensional system, and I am happy to recommend
publication in the SIAM Journal on Applied Dynamical Systems.

                                  ''''''''''''''''

While overall the article is well-written, it would be
improved by some careful proof-reading to take care of
several minor errors of grammar or English usage; in
particular, the definite article 'the' is often missing when
needed (and sometimes present when not needed. . . ). I have
not attempted to point out most of these language aspects in
the list above.

I have included some minor comments, suggestions and
corrections that the authors might wish to consider (I do not
need to see the manuscript again):

' There is some inconsistency in usage and abbreviations. For
instance, on Page 1, the same expression is written as (line
7) '?-d', (lines 17'18 ) 'infinite dimensional' and (line 20)
'?-dimensional' (similarly on other pages). For consistency
with 'low-dimensional' and 'finite-dimensional', instead of
one of the above three choices I would suggest using
'infinite-dimensional.'

Corrected, thank you.

' Page 2, 3rd paragraph, line 2: 'its non-wandering set'

Corrected.

  Also, this sentence, the first sentence of the 3rd
  paragraph of page 2, seems to overlap with the (newly
  added) last paragraph of page 1.

Corrected.

' Page 2, line ?6: '. . . inspired by the investigation of
Vanessa L'pez et al. [38] of . . . '

Corrected.                                                                        o

' Page 4, below (2.3): '. . . replace the sum by an m > 0 sum.' (?)

Corrected.

' Page 7, below (2.19): The periods of spatially periodic
equilibria are surely L/n for integer n, not multiples of L?

Replaced "multiples of $L$." with "$L/n$ with integer $n$."

  ' Page 8, line 13: Surely not all |k| > L short wavelength
  perturbations are strongly contractive? (I would expect
  that, for instance, the mode with k = L + 1 is only weakly
  contractive.)

Corrected. 

' Pages 9 and 21: Sections 3 and 8 have the same heading,
  'Energy transfer rates' ' might one of these be changed?

Corrected.

  ' Page 10, line below (3.2): What is meant by '...
  evaluated on q equilibrium ... '? Could this be '. . .
  evaluated on an equilibrium or relative equilibrium
  labelled by q'?

Corrected.

' Page 11: In equations (3.8) and (3.9), I think one would write
  u2_x and u2_xx (rather than ' ux 2 ' and ' uxx 2 ').

Corrected. 

' Page 11, below (3.9): 'The time-averaged energy density E
computed on a typical orbit is a constant' (? ' of course the
computed value 'goes to' a constant; but the theoretical time
average assumes infinite time).
Corrected.

' Page 11, below (3.10): Which part of Figure 8.1 is intended; should this be '. . . fall onto the
  diagonal in Figure 8.1(a), and so do . . . '?
  It is clear that the equilibria, relative equilibria, and averages on the (relative) periodic orbits
  should fall on the D-P diagonal, but not clear to me how E might be related (see Figure
  8.1(b)); and indeed, while they are close, the averages do not fall on a straight line in Figure
  8.1(b).

Corrected.

' Page 11, 2 lines above Section 4: 'Michelson'

Corrected.

' Page 11, last line: 'attracting periodic states' (not attractive?!)

Corrected.

' Page 12, 2nd paragraph: In the light of the discussion of the low-dimensionality of the KS
  dynamics, and the discussion, based on a computation of the leading Lyapunov exponents,
  that the chaos is mainly confined to a four-dimensional manifold, the following recently pub-
  lished paper (which also uses the KS equation as an example) may be relevant or of interest:
  H.-l. Yang, K.A. Takeuchi, F. Ginelli, H. Chat' and G. Radons, 'Hyperbolicity and the ef-
  fective dimension of spatially extended dissipative systems,' Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 074102
  (20 February 2009).

Corrected.

' Page 12, lines ?6,7,8: Suggestion: 'E2 and E3 essentially lie in the 2nd and 3rd Fourier
  component complex plane, with small deformations of the k = 2j and k = 3j harmonics,
  respectively.' (?)

Corrected.

' Page 13, last paragraph, and Table 5.2: The first sentence is not quite accurate, as for the
  relative equilibria TW'1 and TW'2 , only E is given in Table 5.2. (Can the quantities T , ?e
  and ?c be computed for the relative equilibria?)
  Similarly: Thank you for the explanation of how T was computed for E3 . The use of the
  characteristic decay time scale makes sense to me, but the description on page 13 implies that
  for all equilibria (and relative equilibria), T is computed as T = 2?/?e . Could this description
  be clarified?

Corrected.

' Page 14, below (5.1): '. . . where ? takes a set of values . . . '
Corrected.

' Page 15, (5.2) and the line below: The notation v1 and v2 for orthonormal vectors seems
  unfortunate, since (i) elsewhere, such as in (5.1), vectors have been denoted in boldface,
  specifically as e(j) ; while (ii) in Figures 5.4-5.6 and 5.8, the notation v1 and v2 (and v3 ) is
  used for the scalar coordinate axes (that is, the projections onto the three chosen orthonormal
  vectors). I suggest using boldface vectors also in (5.2).
	
Changed to boldface in (5.2) and changed captions in Figures 5.4-5.6 and 5.8 to reflect
the difference between v and \mathbf{v}.

' Page 17, line 4: Should this read 'We adapt their arguments . . . '?

Corrected.

' Page 18, Fig. 5.7: In Fig. 5.7(a), are the axes the same as in Fig. 5.6(a), just rotated?
  What are the axes used in the representation of Fig. 5.6(b)?

Corrected.

' Page 18 and Fig. 5.9: I was unable to find a reference (at
least in Section 5) to Figure 5.9. In the author responses,
this figure is described as a 'global picture that links all
these together ' a cage that organizes the dynamics', and I
agree; so might it be useful to include a brief description
such as this, say at the end of Section 5, to introduce Fig.
5.9 and highlight its significance?

Now refering to it.

' Page 19, caption of Fig. 5.9: What exactly is meant by the
vectors E2 ??1/4 E2 and E3 ??1/2 E3 : just subtraction? (This
is surprising mainly for being unlike any other projections
performed in the manuscript, and is not discussed or
motivated, especially the presence of ?1/2 E3 .) '. . . E3
equilibrium to ?1/4 E2 . . . ' '. . . have been omitted for
clarity.'

We now write $a_{E_2} - a_{\tau_{1/4}E_2$, etc. We
omit for clarity the unstable manifolds of E3,
\tau_1/2 E3, \tau_1/2 E1, and \tau_1/4 E2. 

' Page 21, Fig. 8.2: It is rather tricky to identify the
locations of the equilibria, especially of E2 , in these
figures; could they be labelled explicitly as in Fig. 8.1?
Also, there doesn't seem to be any discussion of Fig. 8.2 and
its significance in the text (only a comment that such a
projection can be misleading).

Corrected. 

' Pages 21'22, Section 8 and Figures 8.1'8.3: Is it
appropriate (in the light of the discussion regarding
terminology and the changes made elsewhere in the manuscript)
to refer to the L = 22 chaotic trajectories as 'turbulent' in
this section and these figures? (I appreciate the authors'
reasons for wishing to retain some use of the term
'turbulence' in the light of the goal of their overall
research.)

Kept turbulent based on the discussion in the Introduction.

' Page 24, below (A.3): xn = n ' 2? L/N    '

Corrected

' Page 27, below (C.5): in '. . . evaluated using equation
for the vector field': which equation is meant (reference);
or should it read '. . . the equation . . . '?

Corrected. 

' Page 29, Ref. [3]: The reference for the paper by Bronski
  and Gambill is: Nonlinearity, 19 (2006), pp. 2023'2039.
  (Also: 'and L2 bounds . . . ' in the title.)

Corrected.

' Page 30, Ref. [28]: '. . . for the Kuramoto-Sivashinsky
  equation'

Corrected.

' Page 30, Ref. [42]: The first author is R. E. LaQuey.

Corrected, thank you.
