Chaos: MS #12259CAT
"Cartography of high-dimensional flows:
 A visual guide to sections and slices"

Reviewer #2 (Comments to the Author):

Symmetries are an important element of physics and the reduction of
operators to symmetry invariant subspaces is a recognized core technical
tool of theoretical physics. The authors of the present paper argue that
more work is needed in the case of continuous symmetries in hydrodynamic
flows, a topic which they described as being in its infancy. They
summarize their view of the field with the present self-focussed
manuscript with lots of allegorical descriptions and few technical facts
to chew on. The authors describe their ideas in a coordinate free, group
theory based abstract setting, which they think advocates the strength of
their approach. However, I have my doubts that this will win the novice,
because (s)he is not given any clue how to actually implement it in the
prevailing ugly real-world coordinate system based descriptions. I can
certainly agree that improvements in the way continuous symmetries are
dealt with are needed, but I have my doubts that the style of
presentation in the present manuscript will help to improve the
situation. While this difference in pedagogical aspects should not be
taken as an argument against publication it explains why I cannot provide
a more substantial review of the manuscript. My remarks are few and most
of them are optional.

I described the manuscript as self-focussed because about one third of
the references are to the authors work. The work seems to derive quite a
bit of its motivation through recent approaches to various hydrodynamical
flows with continuous symmetries, but most of the other contributions to
these flows are missing from the list of references. The opening
paragraph reads as if no periodic orbits, travelling waves or other
structures had been described in these flows until the author's papers
Ref 1 and 2. But there are lots of papers on coherent structures, and
even some in which relative periodic orbits are calculated, as the
authors know.

I described the manuscript as allegorical because of figures like Fig 3:
what is drawn looks like loops in a pipe: are these simple states or
periodic orbits? Apparently, the idea is to take this object and to shift
and reflect it in order to indicate the symmetries. But this applies to
any state, not only to a periodic orbit. So should you not describe the
symmetries for the state, and omit the reference to the periodic orbit in
the caption?

The absence of technical details is most striking in eq(4), where it is
not at all clear whether the components are real or complex, and what the
symmetry is without going back to the original paper. I'd rather have a
discussion of that than to be given the actual values for which it is
being simulated.

At the end of section III, on page 5, a time-dependent symmetry operation
g(tau) that evolves together with the flow x(tau) is introduced. If you
actually do that as you go along, then the new object X(tau)=g(tau)x(tau)
will have a different equation of motion because of the dot g(tau) terms:
is that what you would like to do?

The comments about norms after eq(1) are cryptic, in view of the fact
that in finite-dimensional state spaces all norms are (in the
mathematical sense) equivalent. So does the emphasis of the significance
of importance of the norm mean that different norms will give different
charts? If so, what happened to the ideal to obtain an abstract invariant
description of the flow?

I do not understand the remarks about sections and strobing, at the end
of section II: isn't it obvious that a Poincare section is not a
projection? and is it not obvious that strobing is a Poincare section
with the section being defined by time taking certain values? I.e. in an
extended state space the two are equivalent, aren't they?
