Chaos: MS #12259CAT
"Cartography of high-dimensional flows:
 A visual guide to sections and slices"

Reviewer #1 (Comments to the Author):

This paper is mainly a review of some techniques for symmetry reduction
that are useful for high-dimensional systems. In particular, the authors
present a method of constraining to a subspace called a "slice," or a set
of such subspaces. The method itself is not new, having been used in the
authors' references 3-6, but this paper presents a nice overview and
several interesting examples.

The English is satisfactory, although I find the informal style a bit
annoying at times. (For instance, on page 5, "Suppose your day job is
computing invariant solutions of the Navier-Stokes equations.")

Overall, I find this an interesting and readable paper, and I recommend
publication, as long as the technical points below can be addressed.

Critical technical points:

1. p2, "a better norm might be a distance between digitized images."
 Would such a norm satisfy the parallelogram law, and thus have an
 associated inner product? Does the chosen norm need to be induced from
 an inner product? I would think that it does, since orthogonality is
 used later (e.g., eq (2)).

2. p5, just before eq (7): It is claimed that <x' | Tx> vanishes
 because T is anti-symmetric. However, while this is true for SO(n) (the
 group mainly considered here), it is not true in general. For instance,
 it is not true for SE(2) as used in ref 4, or for scaling groups as used
 in ref 39. I believe the slice condition (7) should actually be an
 affine space, defined by the displayed equation before (7), although it
 does simplify to (7) in some special cases.

Minor points:

1. p1, "it is possible to take a stroll through 61,506 dimensional
 state space..." Where does this number come from? Later (p3), other
 numbers are mentioned, such as a 61,504-dimensional section borer of a
 61,505-dimensional slab, but no actual example seems to be considered
 with these dimensions, and it is not clear to me what system these
 numbers are referring to.

2. p1, "In quantum mechanics calculations, one always starts out by
 ... block-diagonal ..." Is symmetry reduction really the same thing as
 diagonalization? I don't see how. Is the point simply that one wants to
 choose coordinates that are appropriate for the problem?

3. Several times it is mentioned that "turbulence breaks all
 symmetries", and I do not understand what precisely this means. Is the
 point that, even though the equations may be equivariant, the specific
 solutions may not possess these same symmetries? This is of course true,
 but I am not familiar with the authors' terminology.

4. Fig 1: It looks like the group orbit in (d) is a circle
 (1-dimensional), while in (c) it looks 3-dimensional. This should be
 made consistent.

5. Figure 5(a): I do not understand this diagram, and I wonder if
 something has been left out of the figure. Is a point here supposed to
 represent a group orbit? The only difference I see between (a) and (c)
 is that the dashed portion of the curve has been made solid. It would be
 good to denote the group orbit some other way, so that it is clearer
 what is going on.

6. p9, I don't understand the difference between the "method of
 co-moving frames" and the "method of connections" (Fig 12). Are they the
 same? If I am understanding Fig 12 correctly, it looks like since there
 is no motion along the group tangent directions, this should be the same
 as having a co-moving frame.
