% siminos/cats/nonlin-v1/reviews/editors.txt
% $Author: predrag $ $Date: 2020-10-09 09:29:16 -0400 (Fri, 09 Oct 2020) $

                Nonlinearity article reference: NON-104197

"Linear encoding of the spatiotemporal cat"
by B Gutkin et al.                                  2020-09-21

Re: "Linear encoding of the spatiotemporal cat"
by Gutkin, Boris; Cvitanovic, Predrag; Jafari, Rana;
   Saremi, Adrien; Han, Li

We have now received the referee report(s) on your Paper, which is
being considered by Nonlinearity.

The referee(s) have recommended that you make some amendments to
your article. The referee report(s) can be found below and/or
attached to this message. You can also access the reports at your
Author Centre, at

        mc04.manuscriptcentral.com/non

Please consider the referee comments and amend your article
according to the recommendations. You should then send us a clean
final version of your manuscript. Please also send (as separate
files) point-by-point replies to the referee comments and either a
list of changes you have made or an additional copy of your
manuscript with the changes highlighted (for further information
visit

        publishingsupport.iopscience.iop.org/questions/how-to-prepare-your-revised-article/).

This will aid our referees in reviewing your revised article.
Please upload the final version and electronic source files to your
Author Centre by

                        19-Oct-2020.

If we do not receive your article by this date, it may be treated
as a new submission, so please let us know if you will need more
time.

Yours sincerely
Eimear O'Callaghan

On behalf of the IOP peer review team:
Editor: Jennifer Sanders
Associate Editors: Eimear O'Callaghan and Phil Brown
Editorial Assistant: Jenny Albinus non@ioppublishing.org

Editors-in-Chief: Tasso Kaper and Konstantin Khanin
Publisher: Jessica MacDonald
Production Editor: Tess Broadley

REFEREE REPORT(S):
Referee: 1      See file: referee1.pdf (was GutkinEtAl.pdf)
Referee: 2      See file: referee2.txt
