% siminos/cats/nonlin-v1/reviews/referee2.txt
% $Author: predrag $ $Date: 2020-10-26 23:47:22 -0400 (Mon, 26 Oct 2020) $

COMMENTS TO THE AUTHOR(S)
"Linear encoding of the spatiotemporal cat"

by B Gutkin et al.                          2020-09-21

In the present work the authors consider a truly novel approach to
spatio-temporal lattices of nonlinear classical systems (maps).
While coupled maps presumably go back to the works by Kaneko, and
hundreds of papers have followed, I consider the viewpoint of the
present paper through the lens of (linear) encoding as particular
stimulating.

Along the lines of symbolic dynamics for "single-particle" systems
the authors present a generalization, though conceptually and
technically much more than adding further dimensions, to coupled
map lattices.

They show how to split and analyze symbolic dynamics into and in
terms of interior and exterior parts (with the latter obeying a
non-trivial grammar). For large chaoticity parameter s, they find
that the spatiotemporal dynamics approaches a Bernoulli processes.

Moreover, the authors could analyze in detail shadowing properties
in spatio-temporal space, i.e. shadowing of 2-tori visiting nearly
the same regions in state space in different order.

The paper is naturally technical, but structured in a still
comprehensive way via a motivating introduction, a more general
following section announcing the main results, before the true
calculations begin with section 3. Also there, first the 1-d case
of a single cat map is (re)visited to set the stage, before the
highly non-trivial 2-dimensional case is considered in detail.

Hence, to summarize, I consider the paper as highly relevant
setting the stage for analyzing coupled maps and their complex
spatiotemporal evolution through advanced coding.

I would like to add a few questions that came to my mind and might
be still considered in the manuscript. However, I recommend
publication of the manuscript in Nonlinearity anyway.

1.) bottom of p. 5. Is it clear why the system is chaotic for
    |s| > d ?
    What is the reason for such a simple relation with the
    dimensionality?

2.) Do the results for classical discrete cat-lattices allow
    implications for the continuum limit, ie. where the system
    passes from a lattice to a field? What is expected for the
    coding in the continuum limit.

3.) Combining 1.) and 2.): do we hence need to consider
    s \to \infty to keep chaotic dynamics?
    Does this imply simple Bernoulli processes in that limit?

4.) May it happen that one is always running into a not fully
    chaotic regime when fixing the local dynamics parameter s and
    increasing the dimension?

5.) What are implications for semiclassical many-body approaches?
