Thesis Defense

3/23/09, 2pm, Howey N202 

Recurrent spatio-temporal structures in presence of continuous symmetries

Evangelos Siminos

Advisor: Predrag Cvitanovic

Abstract:

When statistical assumptions do not hold and coherent structures are present in extended systems such as fluid flows, flame fronts and field theories a dynamical description of turbulent phenomena becomes necessary. Such a description relies on understanding the geometry of dynamical state space in terms of compact invariant sets. Most commonly this role is played by unstable equilibria and periodic orbits but in translationaly invariant systems traveling waves and relative periodic orbits (solutions that repeat up to a translation) are as important. The way to incorporate the effects of translational invariance in the study of the geometry of phase space is the subject of this thesis.

We pursue this goal taking Kuramoto-Sivashinsky equation, an one dimensional, nonlinear, dissipative partial differential equation that describes a fluttering flame, as an example, as it is one of the simplest systems with interesting spatio-temporal dynamics. With periodic boundary conditions Kuramoto-Sivashinsky equation is invariant under the group O(2) of translations and reflections. In order to understand the geometry of phase space we need to identify points related by the group action. Such identification, termed symmetry reduction, although conceptually simple as the group action is linear, is hard to implement in practice. The high dimensionality of state space that results from truncation of a PDE is one of the reasons. The second reason is that, for most interesting group actions, the process introduces singularities in the structure of the reduced state space.

Here we propose a procedure to efficiently project dynamics of solutions computed in the original space to a reduced state space. This is done in conjunction with eliminating time-translational invariance with suitably chosen Poincare sections to avoid singularities while setting the stage to compute return maps that describe how unstable manifolds of solutions organize the flow. Simplifying the visualization of high-dimensional flows, this procedure yields new insight into which solutions of Kuramoto-Sivashinsky equation are key to describing the geometry of state space.